---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 UI Basics Technical Essay
date: 2020-09-13
labels:
---

For BrowserHistory1 I took 3 attempts and with the final one I finished it in around 16 minutes. For the first attempt I read the instructions of what to do and went back into the readings to locate which code to use and tried to memorize which ones I needed. Knowing my memory isn't the best, I struggled trying to piece the codes togther in a quickly manner and was getting frustrated that I couldn't it get down.The next attempt I tried to have the readings with the coding in a separate monitor so if I got stuck I would could go look for the code I needed to use, doing so I didn't try to memorize the code more which was a big mistake because I relied on the readings too much so in the end I still couldn't complete it in time since I was going back and forth to find the code. Finally, I decided to watch to watch the screencast, I watched it multiple times to see how it was done, trying to memorize as much as possible. I also read the code in the readings to make sure I had an understanding of what was happening and to make sure I was typing the correct things in. Doing these things helped me complete the assigment efficiently. My advice is to read the instructions, go into the readings to double check your understanding of what is happening and what to input, maybe have the readings out just in case you forget how to type it out (for me it was the list I put "il" instead of "li").

For BrowserHistory2 I took 4 attempts and on the last attempt I finished it in about 5-6 minutes, all the attempts were fails because of careless mistakes. The first time trying it I did it, I forgot to turn on my timer. The second time I had an issue where I would save my work but when refreshing the page it wouldn't update, I was getting so confused and fustrated thinking it was something in my code so I gave up but I remembered in class the professor said something about my cache and then a classmate recommened I open up the page in a private browser. So on the third I attempt I rushed through the code to get it over with, opened the page up in a private browser and thought I was done so I uploaded the video, the next day I went to go watch the video and towards the end I realized that my page ended up wrong, the last step wasn't done correctly so I had to redo the whole thing. I'm glad that this assigment had little code so I went through it and double checked that everything was correct and then uploaded the video. My advice is to take things slow and to double check if everything is correct.

For BrowserHistory3 I took 2 screencast attempts and on the last attempt I finished it in about 7 minutes. My first attempt was a struggle because I couldn't figure out how to break the columms nicely, like one section would overflow to the other and it kept fustrating me so I decided to move on and see if I could figure out anything else before retrying. I then spent an hour trying to figure out how to fix my problem, testing multiple things to see how things worked and if they were able to fix my problem, these test did not help but I did end up learning somethings. One of these tests I decided to watch the screencast solution and tried to see if I could incorporate some of Prof Johnsons coding with what I tried before but still no progress, I then moved on, rewatched his screencast and memorized what he had done as best I could and then reattempted the WOD. My advice for this is to experiment with different things because there's a chance what you do will work and if it doesn't work you can learn something different from it.
